All right, we covered most of
the major surface area of the store,
which we saw that gets the state,
replace reducer, swaps out the reducer.
Dispatch sends actions into
the reducer to do battle
with the current state of the application.
We have one more and that is subscribe.
If you've ever used an event listener
on the DOM, or event emitter in node,
it's basically a way to say,
I care every time the state changes.
Here is a function that I
will give you to go ahead.
Please call this function
every time the state changes.
So we can go ahead and we'll make a,
I don't know, a subscriber.
And that subscriber is
going to be a function and
it'll just console log,
Subscriber, and we'll do stored getState.
And we'll call the value as well,
or we can do the whole object, so
put that there.
And now instead of using
this console log here,
what we'll do is,
we'll say store.subscribe.
Subscribe, and
we'll give it the subscriber.
And you can kinda see, code sandbox
is loading a few times here, but
we add a space.
It gets loaded, we call increment twice,
it's loading each time,
I can say add 1000.
And you can see that every
time the state changes,
then all of a sudden
we call that function.
Why could this be useful?
I don't know.
Let's say you're building
a react application.
You wanna pass new props
every time the state changes.
Cool, react redux can
subscribe to the store.
And we might have different
mechanisms whether the hooks or
the connect API to figure out what
prompts the given react component needs.
And we'd be like cool,
the state changed, neat.
Here's what that means for
the props for these components,
let's pass in new props and
keep everything up to date.
So at this point, we've got the entire
redux store pretty much covered.
Right, we do have a few more of
those helper methods to look at.
One is this bind action creators
that we can kind of pull in.
And we saw that an action creator
is either one of these functions,
they are simply functions that
create actions, seems legitimate.
And so bind action creators just
gives us a way to do some shorthand.
Here we kept having to say, store dispatch
increment, store dispath increment,
add 1000.
What if we just wanted to make functions
that were bound to the dispatcher that we
could just call.
And that's where bind
action creators comes in.
So we could say something
like const actions, and
that could be bindAction creators.
I'm gonna turn off this.
Let's get rid of that as well, so
we don't keep seeing that in the console.
All right, so
we can say bindActionCreators and
we can give it some actions.
We can say increment,
we're just putting them in an object.
And if we look,
if we console log actions now, We can
see that we have an object that has the
keys that we've passed in plus functions,
but these will automatically
call dispatch.
Now we can say add 1000 increment.
And now we can say console.log,
store.getState.
Let's figure out what our issue is.
I figured out my issue, which I bound
them, but what did I bind them to?
Nothing.
So the first argument is the object full
of all of the different action creators
that you wanna bind.
And the second one is what
you wanna bind it to,
which in this case is store.dispatch.
They're on this object, but if I just call
the functions, they're not there as well,
so I could, There we go.
So just JavaScript at that point.
Made some small boo-boos there, which is
fine, let's just review this for a second.
BindActionCreators takes an object full
of functions with keys and values, and
gives you whatever you wanna bind them to.
And now instead of saying dispatch and
having to call the function,
they're put onto this JavaScript object.
If they didn't have the same name,
I could also separate them out as well.
And now just calling the function
automatically takes the action creator and
passes it to dispatch.
If you really wanted to, if bind action
creators wasn't in there for some reason,
and you really wanted
to write it yourself,
this kinda goes back to that answer
from before that we saw, I could.
It's very similar and
probably under the hood just using,
let's give it just new names for a second.
Where we could say
something along the lines
of compose(store.dispatch) and
we can make either one
of them using compose.
Let's do that real quick, Right,
cuz we saw before that we take
the value of the first object,
which is the action that we get and we're
immediately passing it to dispatch, right?
And so if I wanted to do a bunch of them,
as we saw before,
I could just simply take increment,
And add, and map through them,
And just say store.dispatch,
whatever the function was, right?
This is a very simple version of what
bindActionCreators is doing for us.
But we don't have to do
this because it is again,
one more of those little helper methods
that are available to us on react.
And we'll even see that we can use this,
it's on redox rather.
We'll see that we can
use this by ourselves.
But also things in react redux a few
places, we'll be able to kind of use this
for us under the hood, and give us
different functions that we can call
that can immediately talk to the store in
some very simplified use cases, right?
So it's also used under the hood
with a few libraries as well.
The question was,
when we have the subscriber, actually,
we can see it right here,
how do we know what values have changed?
You don't necessarily know which
exact values have changed.
You can get the entire state
that's within the store, right?
Now, the closer you're using the
primitives like strings and numbers and
Booleans, the easier it is to see, are
they different, so on and so forth, right?
One of the things that we wanna do when
we're manipulating the state which is,
I kind of said this in that slide earlier,
which is if you change it, you replace it.
However, that doesn't mean you need to
change every object that you're not
touching, right?
A lot of times we wanna make sure that, or
if we don't necessarily add something to
an array or change a property on
an object, we can return the same object,
which means they're gonna be
referentially equal in JavaScript.
But in the actual subscriber,
we'll get the entire new object.
The parts that have changed will
be referentially different cuz
we replaced them.
And the parts that haven't changed will
equal their previous versions as well.
So when we take pieces of that state tree,
and we pass it into our react components,
either react itself can be like,
okay, cool.
The number for our counter was two.
If it was also two last time, it hasn't
changed, don't rerender the component.
Okay, it's now three,
I should rerender the component itself.
So as we begin to break stuff up, react
will actually handle a lot of that for us,
so we don't necessarily need
to worry about it too much.